So now in this we do let's look at abstract class we would look at what is an abstract class when to
use an abstract class and also a few tricky things about abstract classes.
Let's start with the basics.
What's an abstract class abstract class is basically any class which has abstract in its signatures
or abstract class that viscously what abstract class is all about.
Simple is and then what way does Java has that.
Has the simple concept of an abstract class.
One of the things about abstract class is the fact that you can have a few abstract methods abstract
methods are those methods for whom you don't need to define the method body so you don't need to define
what the method does.
You just need to say this abstract class has these two abstract methods and which is what classes are
extending that abstract class would need to implement those methods.
Abstract class kind of gives you a way to implement common functionality while leaving scope for extension
so you can say these two methods.
My subclasses should implement but I don't want to define them.
The subclasses can define what those methods do but I'll implement the other methods which are there
in here and because there is a direct method in a specific abstract class.
You cannot create an instance of that specific abstract class.
When I say an abstract on a class that means I don't want to create an instance of that specific class.
So an abstract class usually might represent a partially implemented.
So the obvious question is when you use an abstract class.
So basically let's say there are a set of classes which have certain common functionality but the class
which has this common functionality does not make sense on its own or does not make sense to create
an instance of it on its own.
Then you create an abstract as one of the examples that we already looked at is abstract map.
So if you look at the subclass of abstract map its hash map tree map and hash map.
This shared a lot of methods that the abstract map defined so get boot easy empty is empty Kandinsky
and into value.
So all these methods are the definition for these methods are used from abstract class so hash map for
example will not define any of these methods.
It uses the implementation from abstract map so abstract map contains the Guaman functionality between
these maps but it does leave a few things down to these defining things.
For example there's an abstract method called public abstracts set entries that what this forces has
said to the map and can kreplach map to do is they have to give their own implementation of this entry
set method.
So while the abstract map defines common functionality for these maps it also says you have to give
us specific functionality for this week.
Another good example is this.
Bring abstract control.
So if you talk about putting NBT it has a number of controllers right form controller multisection controller
you have a lot of very different rules.
Yeah I mean these controllers are not really important now because of an addition and things like that.
But let's take an earlier version of spring where spring and we see where we used to really have to
create a specific form controller or image the action controller or the controller.
Based on your need and build spring had something called an abstract controller.
The abstract Prempro look defines the common things between these controllers.
So all the controllers who speak of any of these irrespective of which when it is they have to handle
the form so they have to get things from the request and set it into the binding things.
So those kind of common things would be defined in the abstract controller whereas all the other specific
things that needs to be done in dispossed with controllers.
You would have abstract methods defined in the abstract controller.
The actual definition.
The actual implementation of those methods would be done in the specific controllers.
So the thing about abstractly as we discussed earlier is that you not be able to create an instance
of it because it the abstract class might contain abstract method and what the meaning in creating a
class like that.
How do you define an abstract method.
It's basically very simple you just put the abstract keyword before a method so you have abstract wide
abstract matter.
It's not garron I mean it's non-mandatory that an abstract class has an abstract method.
It's not necessary if you put an abstract on a class you will create an instant whether it has an abstract
method or not but there can be extract abstract classes without any abstract method.
As expected a normal class which is not abstract can not have an abstract method so you cannot take
a normal class which is not really declared as an abstract and put an abstract method in there so that's
all the discussion about abstract class basically abstract classes are used when you have common functionality
between set of classes you want to create a specific thing but you don't want to love creation or office
of that particular class in that kind of situations.
You go for an abstract class an abstract class can also have these things called abstract method which
you want.
You are subclasses to implement your rude question of interviewers.
I love this question.
All this is abstract class was this interface.
What is the difference between an abstract class and that phrase I would want to tell.
They are not comparable.
It's like comparing an apple versus an orange.
They're both fruit.
That's that.
So it's completely different things.
Abstract classes are different from interfaces.
I mean there are a few similarities in terms of having abstract method so interface can have abstract
methods abstract class can also have abstract methods but the purpose is why you have an abstract class
and an interface are very different interface.
Kind of represents the common actions that can be performed on a specific class.
So when I took classes at implementing an interface it means that those two classes would implement
those methods.
So those actions you can perform on those classes.
That's what that's when you use an interface you use an interface.
When you are communicating between two different systems and one system would say that the interface
I'm going to provide you and the system is just calling it would use the interface to dock to it.
So it kind of decouples the implementation from the interface whereas an abstract class is more to represent
common functionality between classes.
So let's have five classes which have a little bit of common functionality in them.
So you take those that comment functionality and put it in a class and let's say that class doesn't
make sense to create it.
I would then call it an abstract class.
So the real difference is that abstract classes are used in different scenarios compared to interfaces.
But I mean if somebody is really worried about the syntactical differences then yes let's discuss a
few syntactical differences.
So methods and members of abstract class can have any visibility.
So basically everything in the abstract any method in the abstract class if it wants it can be private
or protected.
But in Endeavor's only thing which is allowed is public a complete child class or an abstract class
should define all the abstract methods.
However it's different with an interface extending that interface because it's just creating an interface
so it does not need to define all the methods so any interface when it's actioning the interface.
It does not need to provide implementations a child class can only extend a single class so basically
there is no concept called multiple inheritance but a class can implement multiple interfaces.
These examples earlier as well and a child class can define an abstract method with the same or less
restricted visibility.
Basically what it means is if there's a method in the superclass then I cannot use the visibility of
that method if a method is declared as a public in the superclass then I cannot be all right.
That method with let's say private or protected because you are reducing the visibility of that particular
moment that you can only override with public.
But whereas in the case of an interface you don't really have an option.
It's public always.
So everything Erlick all the methods which you are implementing from an interface.
They should always be defined as public like a dose of syntactical differences.
But as I said earlier there is no real comparison between an abstract class and an interface you use
abstract classes in completely different situations from when you would use an interface that's I guess
a lot of discussion about interfaces and abstract classes.
And definitely this is not the last time you are going to discuss it with abstract classes and interfaces.
When we talk about Edwins object oriented concept we would get back to this and discuss this a lot more
on BuildOn.
Take a break and I'll see you in the next with you.